.\" Process this file with 'groff -man -Tascii ftsmooth.1'
.\" man page author: Liam Deacon (liam.m.deacon@gmail.com)
.\"
.TH ftsmooth 1 "MARCH 2014" CLEED User Manuals
.\"===================================================================

.SH NAME

ftsmooth \- post-processing tool for IV curves

.SH SYNTAX

.B ftsmooth 
\-i 
.I <input_file>
\-o 
.I <output_file> 
[
.I OPTIONS...
]

.SH AVAILABILITY

ftsmooth is available as part of the CLEED package and should be available on any platform where there is a GNU C compiler (GCC) tool chain. GCC is readily available on most Linux distributions, however Windows users can install MinGW, the minimalist GNU tool set for Windows.   

.SH DESCRIPTION

ftsmooth is a computer program written in C which performs simple processing operations such as Fourier smoothing on IV datasets.

.SH OPTIONS

ftsmooth -i <input> -o <output> (-m <mode> -c <cutoff> -t <tailoff> ...)

mandatory arguments:

	-i <input>	specify input xy data file to process.
	--input <input>

	-o <output>	specify output xy data file.
	--output <output>

optional arguments:
.IP \-c
.IP \-\-cutoff
<cut>
.RS
enter a cut off value for Fourier transform.
.br
This should be between 0 and 1 (default=0.5).

	-d		delete entries with negative y-values.
	--delete

	-h		display syntax help.
	--help

	-m <mode>	specify data smoothing operation mode (default='n').
	--mode <mode>	options are: 's' smoothing, 'n' no-smoothing.

	--range <bounds>
	-r <bounds>	the accepted x-range for the data, specified by
			 <bounds>. Upper & lower x-axis bounds must be decimals
			and where <bounds> may take the following format:
			"lb(1):ub(1),lb(2):ub(2),...,lb(N):ub(N)"
			':' acts as a seperator between lb & ub
			',' acts as a seperator between indicies
			'i' or '*' will ignore bounds, i.e.
			'0.2:10,0.5:*' will output data between 0.2 & max
			e.g. "-r i 300" will only set the upper bound to 300.

	-t <tail>	enter a tail-off value for fourier transform
			(default=10).
	--tailoff <tail>

	--version	print version info.

	-y (<offset>)	offset the y-axis data by the specified value
	--yoffset	note: if no value is specified, the offset will
			be minima = 0.


 .\" Document here situations in which the program can be used, if there are uses that are not obvious.
.SH EXAMPLES

.SH FILES

INPUT FILES: 
.IP *.inp
.RS
The parameter input for the surface model. See 'INPUT_FILE' section for more information.
.RE
.IP *.bul
.RS
The bulk parameter file. See 'BULK_FILE' for more information.
.RE
.IP *.ctr
.RS
The control parameter file for R factor evaluation. See 'CONTROL_FILE' for more information.
.RE
.PP

OUTPUT FILES:

.SH AUTHOR

Georg Held <g.held@reading.ac.uk>.

.SH CONTACT

Please email questions, bugs (ideally with fixes) or any suggestions to either Georg Held, Jacopo Ardini <j.ardini@pgr.reading.ac.uk> or Liam Deacon <liam.m.deacon@gmail.com>.

.\"Document here things that work as designed but which may be unclear or surprising to the user. (This is the System V replacement for the BUGS category; you too can pretend your product has no bugs!)
.\".SH CAVEATS

.SH COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 1995-2014 Georg Held
.PP
LICENSE
.SH SEE ALSO

caoi_leed(1), caoi_rfac(1), cleed_nsym(1), cleed_sym(1), crfac(1), csearch(1), debye(1), ftsmooth(1), latt(1), mkiv(1), phsh(1)