.\" Process this file with 'groff -man -Tascii patt.1'
.\" man page author: Liam Deacon (liam.deacon@diamond.ac.uk)
.\"
.TH patt 1 "MARCH 2014" CLEED User Manuals
.\"===================================================================

.SH NAME

patt \- generate LEED patterns

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B patt \-i <input> \-o <output> 
.I [OPTIONS...]

.SH AVAILABILITY

patt is available as part of the CLEED package and should be available on any platform where there is a GNU C compiler (GCC) tool chain. GCC is readily available on most Linux distributions, however Windows users can install MinGW, the minimalist GNU tool set for Windows.   

.SH DESCRIPTION

patt is a computer program written in C which 

.SH OPTIONS

.IP -i
.IP \-\-input 
.I <filename>
.RS
followed by the filename prefix to input files [default='patt']. 
.RE
.IP -o
.IP \-\-output
.I <filename>
.RS 
followed by the filename prefix to output files [default='patt']. 
.RE
.IP -b
.IP \-\-current 
.I value
.RS 
followed by the beam current value. 
.RE
.IP -B
.IP \-\-beam
.I prefix
.RS
followed by the filename prefix for .raw and .smo files [default='beam']. 
.RE
.IP -h 
.IP \-\-help 
.RS 
give more detailed information during computations. 
.RE

.IP \-q \-\-quiet \-\-quick
.RS
faster with no graphical output and only a few prints to stdout.
.RE
.IP -v 
.IP --verbose 
.RS 
give more detailed information during program flow. 
.RE

.IP -V 
.IP --version 
.RS 
give version and additional information about this program. 
.RE

.\" Document here situations in which the program can be used, if there are uses that are not obvious.
.SH EXAMPLES

.SH NOTES

Both *.inp and *.var input files contain the parameters in arbitrary sequence. The values are preceded by the parameter names that are mentioned above. If a parameter occurs more than one time, the last value is taken. If it doesn't occur at all and a sensible value can be preset, the program takes such values. Be careful with that option because the program will not mention if you forget a value and it is preset by its own value. The used parameter values might be controlled in output file. 

.\"Document here all errors and other messages returned to the user. Include the cause and the recovery actions whenever appropriate and possible.
.\".SH MESSAGES AND EXIT CALLS

.\" Document here the significant changes in each release of the product.
.\".SH HISTORY

.SH FILES

INPUT FILES: 


.SH AUTHOR

Georg Held <g.held@reading.ac.uk>.

.SH CONTACT

Please email questions, bug fixes or any suggestions to either Georg Held or Liam Deacon <liam.deacon@diamond.ac.uk>.

.\"Document here things that work as designed but which may be unclear or surprising to the user. (This is the System V replacement for the BUGS category; you too can pretend your product has no bugs!)
.\".SH CAVEATS

.SH COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 1995-2014 Georg Held
.PP
LICENSE
.SH SEE ALSO

caoi_leed(1), caoi_rfac(1), cleed_nsym(1), cleed_sym(1), crfac(1), csearch(1), debye(1), ftsmooth(1), latt(1), mkiv(1), phsh(1)  