.\" Process this file with 'groff -man -Tascii set_env.1'
.\" man page author: Liam Deacon (liam.m.deacon@gmail.com)
.\"
.TH set_env 1 "MAY 2014" CLEED User Manuals
.\"===================================================================

.SH NAME

set_env \- setup CLEED environment

.SH DESCRIPTION

set_env sets the environment in which CLEED is run. Program paths are checked 
in the order: command line METAVAR > SYSTEM PATH > CLEED_HOME.  

.SH SYNTAX

.B set_env.py 
[-h] [-c] [-x <ext> [<ext> ...]] [-e <env> [<env> ...]]
[-i <INI_FILE>] [-o <INI_FILE>]
[--aoi-leed <AOI_LEED>] [--aoi-rfac <AOI_RFAC>]
[--leed <LEED>] [--search <SEARCH>] [--sym <LEED_SYM>]
[--rfac <RFAC>] [--phsh <PHSH>] [-v] [-V]

.SH OPTIONS

.IP -h
.IP --help
.RS
show this help message and exit.
.RE
.IP -c 
.IP --check
.RS
perform post-processing checks to ensure all paths and executables are set correctly.
.RE
.IP -x 
.I <ext> [<ext> ...]
.IP --ext 
.I <ext> [<ext> ...]
.RS
set enabled extensions; can be any of 'aoi', 'sym' or
'phsh'. Note: Multiple extensions can be enabled simultaneously.
.RE
.IP -e 
.I <env> [<env> ...]
.IP --env
.I <env> [<env> ...]
.RS
set custom environment values of the form: "<var>:<value>".
.RE
.IP -i
.I <INI_FILE>
.IP --input
.I <INI_FILE>
.RS
load custom environment from <INI_FILE>.
.RE
.IP -o
.I <INI_FILE>
.IP --output
.I <INI_FILE>
.RS
save custom environment to <INI_FILE> [default: "cleed.ini"]. Note <INI_FILE> is always written.
.RE
.IP --aoi-leed
.I <AOI_LEED>
.RS
path to angle of incidence LEED program wrapper [default: "caoi_leed.exe"].
.RE
.IP --aoi-rfac
.I <AOI_RFAC>
.RS
path to angle of incidence R-Factor wrapper program [default: "caoi_rfac.exe"].
.RE
.IP --leed 
.I <LEED>
.RS
path to LEED program [default: "cleed_nsym.exe"].
.RE
.IP --search 
.I <SEARCH>
.RS
path to search program [default: "csearch.exe"].
.RE
.IP --sym 
.I <LEED_SYM>
.RS 
path to symmetrised LEED program [default:"cleed_sym.exe"].
.RE
.IP --rfac 
.I <RFAC>
.RS
path to R-Factor program [default: "crfac.exe"].
.RE
.IP --phsh 
.I <PHSH>
.RS
path to phase shifts program [default: "phsh.py"].
.RE
.IP -v
.IP --verbose
.RS
set verbosity level [default: None].
.RE
.IP -V
.IP --version
.RS
show program's version number and exit.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES

.B set_env --check
.RS
This will set the 
.I CLEED_HOME
,
.I CLEED_PHASE
,
.I CSEARCH_LEED
(to 'cleed_nsym') and 
.I CSEARCH_RFAC
(to 'crfac') environment variables and check to verify all paths are correct.
.RE
.PP
.B set_env --check --ext aoi sym phsh 
.RS
In addition to the above example, this will set the 
.I CAOI_LEED
,
.I CAOI_RFAC
and 
.I PHASESHIFTS_LEED
environment variables.
.RE
.PP
.B set_env --env "CLEED_PHASE":"~/cleed/phase"
.RS
This will set the 
.I CLEED_PHASE
environment variable to "~/cleed/phase"
.RE
.PP
.B set_env -i "env.ini" --env "CLEED_PHASE":"%APPDATA%/CLEED/phase" -o "env.ini"
.RS
This will load the environment from 
.I "env.ini"
, then set the 
.I CLEED_PHASE
environment variable to 
.I "%APPDATA%/CLEED/phase"
before re-writing 
.I "env.ini"
with the updated value.
.RE


.SH AUTHOR

Liam Deacon <liam.m.deacon@gmail.com>

.SH AVAILABILITY

set_env.py should run on any system with a Python interpreter installed.
In circumstances where Python is unavailable, basic 'set_env' scripts are 
available in bash and Windows batch, however they require
manual editing to correctly set up the environment values and are not as
dynamic as the Python version.

.SH COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2014 Diamond Light Source Ltd. All rights reserved.

.SH LICENSE

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0
.PP
http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.PP
Distributed on an "AS IS" basis without warranties
or conditions of any kind, either express or implied.
.PP
Please send your feedback, including bug notifications 
and fixes to: liam.m.deacon@gmail.com

.SH SEE ALSO

caoi_leed(1), caoi_rfac(1), cleed_nsym(1), cleed_sym(1), crfac(1), csearch(1), debye(1), ftsmooth(1), latt(1), mkiv(1), phsh(1)
